Proforma
========

My project is about building an Android application that allows participants of a track based activity to track other participants in real time. I have created an Android app that achieves this by first letting users connect to each other in one of two different ways, and then displaying a diagram which shows the relative positions and trails of the other players on the screen, along with that of the user. The inter-device communication has been implemeneted using both client-server, and peer-to-peer models, with various further options for each.
The work completed fulfills the project requirements.

Introduction
============

With the sudden rise of smartphones in the past decade, new innovations are constantly being discovered. One niche within the applications market is the area of physical sports enhancement. There are now multiple widely used applications on the market offering real-time as well as historic personal tracking and analysis for the duration of some physical activity, be it cycling, running skiing or something else altogether.
Typically these applications display your location on screen as you advance around some course, and provide statistics along the way such as velocity, distance travelled and many more. They also allow the user to store records of their session, so that future performance can be compared and further analysis done.
However, despite the many features on offer, none of these apps acknowledge the fact that often the activities involved are group events, thus failing to capitalise on an entire dimension of available data. Namely, the performance of all of the other participants with whom the user may be competing with.\footnote{The social networking "share" paradigm has been applied to such applictions, allowing others to see user statistics after the event has taken place, but there is no, at least to my knowledge, real-time sharing facility allowing others to compete at the same time}

In the video game industry it has long been standard practice for racing games to display a simple map of the course on the screen (typically in one of the corners) showing the location of each competitor. This allows the user to continually evaluate their relative position, and stay informed throughout the duration of the race. There are arguments for and against such a feature,\footnote{While knowing the location of other participants can increase competitiveness and increase player performance, it can also result in decreased performance with winner competency and loser frustration *economics/psychology reference?} but the unanimous support in gaming is sufficient proof that it is desirable.

There are several problems that must be overcome in building such an application.
First there is the decision of which hardware to use.